SRI CHANAKYA NITI-SASTRA THE POLITICAL ETHICS OF CHANAKYA PANDIT 
    About 2300 years ago the Greek conqueror Alexander the Great 
invaded the Indian sub-continent. His 
offensive upon the land's patchwork of small Hindu empires proved to be highly
 successful due to the disunity of the petty rulers. It was Chanakya Pand
it who, feeling deeply distressed at heart, searched for and discovered a qualified leader in the person of Chandragupta Maurya. Although a mere 
dasi-putra, that is, a son of a maidservant by the Magadha King Nanda, Chandragupta was highly 
intelligent, courageous and physically
 powerful. Chanakya cared little that by birth he should not have dared to 
approach the throne. A man of acute discretion, Chanakya desired only that a ruler of extraordinary capabilities 
be raised to the exalted post of King of Magadha so that the offensive launched by the Yavanas (Greeks) could be repressed. 
  It is said that Chanakya had 
been personally offended by King Nanda 
and that this powerful brahmana had vowed to keep his long 
sikha
 unknotted until he saw to the demise 
of the contemptuous ruler and his 
drunken princes. True to his oath, it was only after Chanakya Pandit 
engineered a swift death for the degraded and worthless rulers of the Nanda 
dynasty that this great 
brahmana was able to again tie up his tuft of hair. There are several versions relating th
e exact way that Chanakya had set 

about eliminating the Na
ndas, and it appears historians have found it difficult to separate fact from folk legend as regards to certain specific details.   After the Nanda downfall, it becam
e easy for Chandragupta to win the 
support of the Magadha citizens, who responded warmly to their new heroic 
and handsome young ruler. Kings of neighbouring states rallied under Chandragupta's suzerainty and the last of the Greeks headed
 by Alexander's 
general Seleucus were defeated.   With the dual obstacles of the 
Nandas and Alexander's troops out of 
the way, Chanakya Pandit used every political device and intrigue to unite 
the greater portion of the Indian sub-c
ontinent. Under the Prime ministership 
of Chanakya, King Chandragupta Maurya conquered all the lands up to Iran 
